1. Compare and contrast the Model class we have been using to ActiveRecord

It looks like we will no longer need to push the Model into the classes because Active Record will make sure consistent behavior and data operate on that data. That is almost a direct quote from the reading but I understand this to mean that the relationship between models, data and objects will be more streamlined and consistent. In constrast to Active Record, Model seems more limited as to how it can help us work with the data and logic in our programs.

2. What is ActiveRecord doing? How does it relate to our database server?

Is it correct to say that Active Record will act as a sort of agent on behalf of data and logic and make sure our database operates on and object-oriented basis (that is, how data and logic are interacting with our objects?)? Active Record goes beyond what the use of Models does for us currently because it will validate our models and ensure conistency with our database. For example, the naming conventions required with Active Record are there so that Active Record may maintain the heirarchy and consistency of our data.

In reflection/writeup.txt please explain the distinction between:

Postgresql database server
Postgres is an open-source database system that can be described as object-relational and therefore is
perfect to use with Ruby. It supports most SQL data types and therefore provides consistency. Postgresql has a strong reputation for reliability.

Wdumblr database
The Wdumblr database holds only data for the amazing Wdumblr app. It was created in Postgresql.

authors, posts, and images tables
The authors table provides basic information about the authors of Wdumblr including name and email, although each author is also assigned a serial primary key upon creation. The posts table includes data created by the authors and is searchable by post name or author. The images table includes data created for the app via the Instagram API. Images are searchable by post and new images can be created
by keyword.

psql
psql is the terminal interface we use with Postgresql.


ActiveRecord
Without directly quoting the reading, Active Record is the model layer of the application which manages
the logic and data of the application, and is especially useful to us now because it connects to a postgresql database.